.. include:: /../docs/shared/include/defs.rst
.. _lino.changes.2018:

====
2018
====


.. contents::
  :local:

December
========

Fixed :ticket:`2710` in :mod:`lino.modlib.extjs`  Checking date change. When
:attr:`lino.modlib.system.SiteConfig.next_partner_id` was inadvertently set to
the id of an existing Company, creating a Person caused Lino to overwrite the
data of the company instead of noticing the problem.

(20181226) Removed the pisa build method for printable documents. :ref:`cosi`
now uses :mod:`lino_xl.lib.weasyprint` as the default build method. You will get
an error at the data migration if there are objects (e.g. calendar entries)
pointing to this print method. In that you can probably simply deactivate the
following line in :func:`create_cal_event`::

    kw.update(build_method=build_method)


Released :ref:`cosi` 18.12.1

(20181225) Installing :ref:`cosi` with the pip command now works with Python3
as described in :ref:`user.install`.


Fixed :ticket:`2715` in :mod:`lino_xl.lib.contacts`.

(20181226) Removed the pisa build method for printable documents. :ref:`cosi`
now uses :mod:`lino_xl.lib.weasyprint` as the default build method.

Released :ref:`cosi` 18.12.1

(20181225) Installing :ref:`cosi` with the pip command now works with Python3
as described in :ref:`user.install`.


.. currentmodule:: lino_xl.lib.beid

(20181224) fixed :ticket:`2773` in :mod:`lino_xl.lib.beid` :  when calling
eidreader while no id card was inserted into the reader sometimes caused a
server error message instead of just telling the user that there was no card.

.. currentmodule:: lino_xl.lib.topics

(20181222) :mod:`lino_xl.lib.topics` : :class:`Interest` now has
:attr:`allow_cascaded_delete <lino.core.model.Model.allow_cascaded_delete>` set
to ``["partner"]``. IOW the interests of a partner should not prevent a user
from deleting the partner.  If the user decides to delete a partner and some
existing :class:`Interest` refers to the partner, it should be deleted
automatically.

.. currentmodule:: lino_xl.lib.beid

(20181221) :mod:`lino_xl.lib.beid` : New error message :message:`Invalid
urlhandler_prefix {} (must end with '://')` when :attr:`urlhandler_prefix
<Plugin.urlhandler_prefix>` does not end with ``"://"``.




.. _xl.18.12.4:
.. _lino.18.12.4:

2018-12-18
==========

Released Lino version 18.12.5.

Lino was not yet installable using pip under Python 3. Now it is (hopefully).

A new command-line option ``--quick`` has been added to :xfile:`restore.py`.
The idea was that calling :meth:`Model.full_clean` on every restored database
row might make things very slow. This was used to try :ticket:`2755` on the
field. First tests on real data indicate that it doesn't give very much.


Released XL version 18.12.5

The :class:`lino_xl.lib.xl.Priorities` choicelist was moved from
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.tickets` to :mod:`lino_xl.lib.xl` so that it can be used by
any plugin of the XL. The :class:`cal.Priority` model and its FK in
:class:`cal.Event <lino_xl.lib.cal.Event>` have been removed. Added a
choicelist field :attr:`lino_xl.lib.cal.Component.priority` pointing to
:class:`Priorities <lino_xl.lib.xl.Priorities>`. Priorities can't be
configured using the web interface any more, this is now done using a local
choicelists module.

Applications using :mod:`lino_xl.lib.cal` must do a database migration::

    def create_cal_event(id, modified, created, start_date, start_time, end_date, e$
        ...
        #kw.update(priority_id=priority_id)
        ...

    def main(args):
        ...
        #execfile("cal_priority.py", *args)
        ...



The :meth:`get_table_summary` of :class:`lino_xl.lib.blog.LatestEntries` now
also returns an etree element (instead of a string with HTML).




.. _lino.18.12.2:

2018-12-13
==========

Released Lino 18.12.2

The new :class:`lino.modlib.summaries.Summarized` mixin didn't yet update its
fields during :manage:`checkdata`. And I had no pangs of conscience to
completely review the API at that occasion: Summarizable becomes Summarized,
Summary becomes MonthlySlaveSummary, a new attribute :attr:`delete_them_all
<lino.modlib.summaries.Summarized.delete_them_all>` to make sure the developer
knows what it means.

:func:`lino.utils.jsgen.py2js` now has a keyword argument "compact" that
defaults to True. Because the default behaviour of py2js returns a massive
1-line response which makes it almost impossible to find where an issue in the
json is if there is some problem. In the react renderer im having it using the
:attr:`lino.core.site.Site.is_demo_site` value to determine if it wants to have
it be compact or not.


Released XL 18.12.3




.. _lino.18.12.1:

2018-12-12
==========

Released version 18.12.1.

- :ticket:`2745` (Summaries without master) caused some changes in
  :mod:`lino.modlib.summaries`:

  Added a new type of summary: a
  :class:`lino.modlib.summaries.Summarizable`. Models inheriting this have a
  lightning button to the ticket and makes the summary fields get updated during
  :manage:`computesummaries`, but unlike it subclasses the objects are not
  considered temporary data (i.e. not being deleted during
  :manage:`computesummaries`.

  Actions for updating summaries now have a "∑" as button_text instead of a
  'lightning' icon.

  First usage example is :class:`lino_noi.lib.tickets.Ticket` which now shows
  the total work time (one sum per reporting type) of a ticket.

  The summary panel of SessionsByTicket no longer has a ▶ button for starting a
  session from ticket. Because the same button exists already in the workflow
  buttons where it is more intelligent because the ▶ cheanges to ■ when the
  user has an open session on this ticket.

- :ticket:`2744` (How to use locally injected fields in a layout) : new method
  :meth:`lino.core.model.Model.get_layout_aliases`.

- Fixed an unreported bug: the :manage:`checksummary` task was maybe not being run daily
  by :manage:`linod`.

- A solution for :ticket:`2746`.
  The virtual field :attr:`lino.core.model.Model.overview` was being used for two different things: (1) in
  detail layouts to create customizable "overview panels" and (2) in table layouts
  to create a "clickable description", functionally equivalent to double clicking
  on the row.

  The latter use should now be done with the new virtual field
  :attr:`lino.core.model.Model.detail_link` whose verbose_name is automatically
  set to the model's verbose_name. This is done during startup and probably you
  cannot override this.

  The :attr:`lino.core.model.Model.overview` field no longer has a
  verbose_name, so application code no longer needs to set it explicitly to
  None using :func:`dd.update_field`.


Released XL version 18.12.1

  :class:`lino_noi.lib.tickets.Ticket` now shows
  the total work time (one sum per reporting type) of a ticket.

  The summary panel of SessionsByTicket no longer has a ▶ button for starting a
  session from ticket. Because the same button exists already in the workflow
  buttons where it is more intelligent because the ▶ cheanges to ■ when the
  user has an open session on this ticket.




.. _lino.18.12.0:

2018-12-11
==========

Released version 18.12.0

We are still working on :ticket:`2741` (Have book test pass with PyPI version
of lino and lino_xl).


.. _lino.18.11.0:

2018-12-10
==========

Released version 18.11.0

The default value for :attr:`verbose_name_plural
<lino.core.workflows.Workflow.verbose_name_plural>` of a
:class:`lino.core.workflows.Workflow` is now more intelligent: if the workflow
is being used on a single model (which is the case for most workflows), the
text is now "{} states" where {} is the model's verbose name.

:meth:`lino.modlib.memo.parser.Parser.register_django_model` now says an understandable
error message "Duplicate renderer for %s" when an application tries to redefine
another renderer on the same model.

:mod:`lino.modlib.uploads` : the summary of AreaUploads now supports being
shown in a grid.  It shows contant as a single paragraph (instead of an UL and
adds an action for opening the salve table in a separate window.

Fixed :ticket:`2731` in :mod:`lino_xl.lib.cal`:
:class:`lino_xl.lib.cal.MyTasks` no longer hides open tasks that were started
in the past. PublishEvent is now allowed for a meeting that lies in the past.

:mod:`lino_xl.lib.courses`: the Explorer menu now shows courses.CourseStates




November 2018
=============

- :ticket:`2682` Optionally allow dashboard items with no data to display
- :ticket:`2670` Leaving a combobox before its store is loaded
- :ticket:`2668` Grid keyboard nav optimizations
- :ticket:`2660` Configure the choices of a TimeField
- :ticket:`2648` Show toolbar list actions in display_type "html"
- :ticket:`2646` Cell cursor jumps to home after inserting a line
- :ticket:`2644` Show current state's button_text in workflow_buttons
- :ticket:`2632` Hovering over the column header of a grid doesn't display the help_text

- :ticket:`2497` Comboboxes sometimes show the value instead of the text
  (:ticket:`2628` ForeignKey fields are not rendered correctly when detail loads
  first time)

- :ticket:`2623` Inconsistent meaning of Ctrl-S and Enter
- :ticket:`2596` Search field is disabled by loadmask
- :ticket:`2577` Row-level edit locking
- :ticket:`2544` SiteSearch fails when it finds a name containing "&"




.. _v18.9:
.. _lino.18.10:

2018-10-30
==========

Database changes

- Subclasses of :class:`lino.mixins.refs.Referrable` now always have
  `max_length=200`.

Internal changes:

- release tags in 18.8 were missing in the git repo because atelier
  did not yet push them.

- New model mixin :class:`lino.mixins.refs.StructuredReferrable`.

- New model mixin :class:`lino.modlib.users.UserPlan`.

- plain html tables now use ``class="text-cell"`` instead of a
  hard-coded set of attributes  ``align="left"``.

- The :meth:`lino.core.renderer.HtmlRenderer.table2story` method now
  yields a sequence of elements instead of returning a single one.

- We have a new method :meth:`lino.core.requests.BaseRequest.show_story`
  which is used in the template for the report
  (:xfile:`ledger/Report/default.weazy.html`).

- in :mod:`lino.api.doctest`, show_sql_queries and show_sql_summary no
  longer call reset_sql_queries.

- we continued to improve the documentation

- :func:`lino.api.doctest.show_sql_summary` now supports INSERT INTO
  and DELETE FROM statements. It now uses `sqlparse
  <https://sqlparse.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`__.


New features visible to end-users:

- A new implementation of the Accounting Report.
  :class:`sheets.Report <lino_xl.lib.sheets.Report>` replaces the
  :class:`ledger.AccountingReport
  <lino_xl.lib.ledger.AccountingReport>`.  It now includes subtotals,
  analytic accounts balances, balance sheet and income statement.
  It is no longer a virtual table but
  a :class:`lino.modlib.users.UserPlan`.

- Optimizations in :mod:`lino_xl.lib.cal` :class:`OverdueAppointments
  <lino_xl.lib.cal.OverdueAppointments>` : the default view no longer
  includes today, it stops yesterday.  Because today's appointments
  are shown by :class:`lino_xl.lib.cal.MyAppointmentsToday`.


.. _v18.8:

2018-08-31
============

Version 18.8 was the first release for which pip install worked.  At least
under Python 2.

Released packages: :mod:`lino`, :mod:`lino_xl`, :mod:`lino_cosi`,
:mod:`lino_noi` , :mod:`lino_tera`, :mod:`lino_amici`,
:mod:`lino_avanti`, :mod:`lino_welfare`, :mod:`lino_vilma`,
:mod:`lino_care`.

There were many changes... we just didn't collect descriptions of them yet.

- 20180521 Fixed :ticket:`2393` (Wrong error message when no eid card
  found)

- 20180522 Fixed :ticket:`2395` (Unknown callback
  -9223363281463807000).
