.. include:: /../docs/shared/include/defs.rst
.. _lino.changes.2020:
.. _xl.changes.2020:
.. _book.changes.2020:

====
2020
====

This is the 2020 :term:`change log` for :ref:`book`.
General information about how to read and maintain this document in :ref:`dev.changes`.

.. contents::
  :local:

2020-12-24
==========

:ref:`amici` : Optimize detail views of households, persons and companies

2020-12-23
==========

:ref:`voga` : Remove custom :term:`activity layouts <activity layout>` from
default settings.


2020-12-19
==========

:class:`lino_xl.lib.countries.Places` had no :attr:`insert_layout` and hence no
|insert| button. Now it has.

2020-12-17
==========

Fixed a bug in :class:`lino_xl.lib.finan.BankStatement` caused by
misinterpreting Debit and Credit after :ticket:`3817` (see `2020-10-15`_).



2020-10-22
==========

Better support for empty :attr:`declaration_plugin
<lino_xl.lib.vat.Plugin.declaration_plugin>` : Adapted the :fixture:`payments`
fixture of :mod:`lino_xl.lib.ledger` to also work when this setting is empty.
The :meth:`get_installed_plugins` of the
:class:`lino_voga.lib.voga.settings.Site` no longer yields the
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.bevats` plugin (because this is done automatically when
:attr:`declaration_plugin <lino_xl.lib.vat.Plugin.declaration_plugin>` is set).


2020-10-19
==========

Lino no longer prints a message "num2words not installed, use `python manage.py
install` to install" at each startup  of an application that does not install
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.cal` but imports a mixin from this plugin,  This message was
meant to be useful, but it was suboptimal: the recommended thing to do when a
requireed Python package seems to be missing is to run :manage:`install` (which
will also upgrade dependencies). And then it was disturbing because it caused
the doctests in mentori to fail.

Released xl 20.10.1 to PyPI.


2020-10-15
==========

Accounting movements are no longer stored in two separate fields (one for the
amount and another for the booking direction, debit or credit) but simply as the
amount, and a negative amount indicates a debit. Existing production sites must
edit their restore.py::

  from lino_xl.lib.ledger.choicelists import DC

  def create_ledger_journal(...):
    if dc:
      kw.update(dc=DC.credit)
    else:
      kw.update(dc=DC.debit)
    # same change also in create_sheets_item()

  def create_ledger_movement():
    if dc: amount = -amount
    kw.update(amount=amount)
    #kw.update(dc=dc)  # uncomment this line

    # same change also in create_finan_bankstatementitem, create_finan_journalentryitem, create_finan_paymentorderitem

It might make sense to run :manage:`reregister` after database migration.

When migrating from Lino before 20201008, keep in mind that that a checked dc
field (True) means credit and not checked (False) means debit, and that Lino now
stores the amount of a crediting movement (dc was True) as a negative number.

PyPI releases: react, lino, xl, cosi, voga, tera.

2020-10-05
==========

The :mod:`lino_xl.lib.courses` plugin no longer requires the
:mod:`lino_l.lib.cal` plugin.

2020-10-01
==========

In :mod:`lino_xl.lib.sheets`, the reports now have columns "Balance before" and
"Balance after" instead of "Debit before", "Credit before", "Debit after" and
"Credit after".

Fixed some bugs that caused the report to not show all totals.

Database migration might require manual change in file :file:`/sheets_item.py`
where you should change "6100" to "6010" and "6200" to "6020"::

  loader.save(create_sheets_item(20,'6010',['Operating expenses', '', 'Operating expenses', 'Operating expenses'],False,'R','6010',None))
  loader.save(create_sheets_item(21,'6020',['Other expenses', '', 'Other expenses', 'Other expenses'],False,'R','6020',None))

New admin command :manage:`showsettings`.


2020-09-25
==========

When :meth:`lino.utils.IncompleteDate.parse` could not parse a date, it no
longer raises an error but returns `None`.

2020-09-07
==========

:meth:`lino.utils.diag.Analyzer.get_complexity_factors` no longer yields the
number of user_roles. Because I realized that this number is meaningless for
discussing the commercial complexity of an application.

2020-09-04
==========

:meth:`lino.core.site.Site.setup_quicklinks` no longer searches and executes a
global function :func:`setup_quicklinks` in each plugin, but calls the new
plugin method :meth:`lino.core.plugin.Plugin.get_quicklinks`. The
:meth:`Model.get_simple_parameters
<lino.core.fields.TableRow.get_simple_parameters>` method may now return an
iterator (or a list or a tuple) of fields names.


2020-09-01
==========

:term:`Learning foreign keys <learning foreign key>` now also work in :ref:`react`.
The :attr:`lino_xl.lib.cal.Guest.partner` field is now a :term:`learning foreign key`.

Moved the functions :func:`choices_response`  and :func:`choices_for_field`
from :mod:`lino_react.react.views` to :mod:`lino.core.views` and to
:mod:`lino.core.fields` because this was duplicated code.


2020-08-28
==========

Fixed two issues in :mod:`lino_xl.lib.calview` for :ticket:`3769`:  "Week
navigation causes calendar to mess up weeks" and "slave title says 'None in Week
50 / 2019 (09 December)'"

Released to PyPI : :mod:`lino` 20.8.2 and :ref:`xl` 20.8.2.


2020-08-25
==========

Fixed :ticket:`3766` ('NoneType' object has no attribute 'get_layout_handle'
when  trying to edit any combobox field in the
:class:`lino.modlib.users.MySettings` form.


2020-08-15
==========

Released to PyPI : :mod:`lino` 20.8.1.


2020-08-14
==========

The duplicate action is again visible for every user, not only for experts (users having :class:`lino.core.roles.Expert`)

Adapted :mod:`lino.sphinxcontrib.help_texts_extractor` to a change in Sphinx
that caused the :xfile:`help_text.py` files to not get updated any more:  the
:class:`sphinx.addnodes.desc_signature` node now stores the name of the
described object now in the "ids" attribute instead of "names". I didn't
understand every detail but it seems to work again.


2020-08-12
==========

Fix some issues using the recently released version 3.1 of Django (e.g.
ImportError: cannot import name 'FieldDoesNotExist')

2020-08-11
==========

Fix :ticket:`3745` (Lino says "partner: cannot be null" when trying to create
a person).

Released to PyPI : :mod:`lino_xl` 20.8.1,


2020-08-10
==========

Released to PyPI : :mod:`lino_welfare` 20.8.0 and :mod:`lino_weleup` 20.8.0.

2020-08-07
==========

Released to PyPI : :mod:`lino_presto` 20.8.0.

2020-08-05
==========

Released to PyPI : :mod:`lino` 20.8.0, :mod:`lino_xl` 20.8.0, :mod:`lino_avanti`
20.8.0

Released to PyPI : :mod:`lino_openui5` 20.8.0

2020-08-04
==========

Auto-fill ref field using custom rule : The :attr:`ref` field of a client in
:ref:`avanti` ("Legacy file number") can now automatically find the next
available reference number.  The current solution is hard-coded and just enough
to satisfy the customer's requirement. Not yet sure whether it makes sense to
generalize this feature.

2020-07-21
==========

Fixed two exceptions caused by a calendar entry with an :attr:`auto_type` but no
:attr:`owner` (which is a checkdata problem because this case doesn't occur
theoretically). The checkdata message "Has auto_type but no owner." is now
fixable, it fixes the problem by setting the auto_type to None in that case.

Released :ref:`xl` to PyPI.

2020-07-20
==========

Release to PyPI : lino 20.7.3 (just removed three dependencies, no functional changes)

Release to PyPI : lino 20.7.4, atelier, getlino, xl, avanti, tera, presto
(several subtle changes, see blog)

2020-07-17
==========

Released to PyPI : welfare, weleup and welcht

Fixed two bugs:
:ticket:`3715` ("IndexError: list index out of range" after deleting from detail window)
and
:ticket:`3714` (After saying No to Apply beid changes to client? Lino seems to apply them nevertheless.)

Released to PyPI : Lino and XL

Released to PyPI : avanti (should fix a failure in getlino test suite: Exception: Problem installing fixture '/home/lino/lino/lino_local/avanti1/env/repositories/xl/lino_xl/lib/uploads/fixtures/demo2.py': 'nathalie' : no such user)


2020-07-16
==========

Several bug fixes.

Released the following packages to PyPI:
:ref:`lino` 20.7.1, :ref:`xl` 20.7.2, :ref:`tera` 20.7.0, :ref:`openui5` 20.7.0.


2020-07-04
==========

.. currentmodule:: lino_xl.lib.uploads

Optimization for :ticket:`3695`: :attr:`Upload.needed` is now also included in
the insert window.

Released XL 20.7.1 to PyPi.

2020-07-02
==========

Reactivated the :xfile:`weasyprint/top-right.jpg` feature


2020-07-02
==========

Released to PyPI (all with version 20.7.0) : Lino, XL, Avanti.

2020-07-01
==========

Added a new method :meth:`lino.core.requests.BaseRequest.clear_cached_status`.

.. currentmodule:: lino_xl.lib.polls

Fixed a bug in :class:`AnswersByResponse` that caused remarks to always be
stored next to the first question of a poll. Fixed a bug that made it impossible
to edit the "My remark" field in :class:`AnswersByResponseEditor`.

2020-06-30
===========

When :envvar:`LINO_CACHE_ROOT` is set (e.g. on :ref:`travis`), Lino forgot to
add the :term:`site configuration directory` to its list of config dirs. Another
problem was that these "non-local site config dirs" (for example
:mod:`lino_book.projects.apc` when run on travis) must come before the plugin
config dirs.


2020-06-29
==========

.. currentmodule:: lino_xl.lib.uploads

Last changes in :mod:`lino_xl.lib.uploads`:  :class:`MyExpiringUploads` is now a
dashboard item. Two new settings :attr:`Plugin.expiring_start` and
:attr:`Plugin.expiring_end`.

2020-06-27
==========

Lino has a new admin command :manage:`passwd`.

Six releases to PyPI (all with version 20.6.0) : Lino, XL, :ref:`presto`,
:ref:`amici`, :ref:`avanti` and :ref:`react`.


2020-06-22
==========

- Fixed :ticket:`3698` : When using :func:`lino.core.inject.inject_field` on a model, Lino did not
  reset the field cache of the MTI children of that model.  This turned out to
  be necessary in some situations.

- :func:`lino.api.doctest.show_choicelists` now also shows the number of items in each choicelist.


2020-06-06
==========

Added a new database field :attr:`lino_xl.lib.beid.BeIdHolder.nationality_text`.
(:ticket:`3681`)

2020-05-21
==========

The `item_vat` option (whether we want to include VAT in the price of the items
of an invoice) no longer depends on the :term:`VAT regime` but is configurable
as a new plugin attribute :attr:`lino_xl.lib.vat.Plugin.item_vat`

Released lino, xl and cosi to PyPI.

2020-05-20
==========

Changes in the :class:`lino_xl.lib.products.PriceRule` model) require a database
migration: Field :attr:`event_type` has been renamed to :attr:`lino_xl.lib.products.PriceRule.selector`.
Field :attr:`fee` has been renamed to :attr:`lino_xl.lib.products.PriceRule.product`.


2020-05-13
==========

Fixed :ticket:`3637` (can only concatenate str (not "__proxy__") to str).

WebIndexTestCase now
(1) runs on the populated demo data (and no longer on an empty database created by the django test runner)
(2) checks several variants of `test_urls`
(3) tests them for each user (unless :attr:`lino.core.site.Site.user_model` is None)

2020-05-04
==========

Released Lino 20.5.1 and XL 20.4.2. With several internal optimizations that
caused the test suites of book, presto, amici and welfare to fail.


2020-04-21
==========

Lino no longer allows several transitions for a same target state. Every state
of a workflow can have at most one "transition" action for entering this state.
This change imposes more discipline for application developers when designing a
workflow definition. It has the advantage that you can now access the transition
of a given state in order to change its configuration.  For example
:ref:`presto` uses this to change the
:class:`lino_xl.lib.cal.MarkEventTookPlace` transition. Added a new attribute
:class:`lino.core.workflows.State.transition` and a new exception "Tried to add
another transition to <state name>".  The :mod:`lino_book.projects.workflows`
demo project is an example of an application that had to be adapted to this new
limitation.


2020-04-18
==========

Added a new observable date range :class:`lino.mixins.periods.Weekly`.

Released Lino 20.4.1 and XL 20.4.2.

2020-03-15
==========

Released to PyPI : lino lino-xl

Fix ImportError: cannot import name 'ZERO_DURATION' from 'lino.utils.quantities'

2020-03-10
==========

The :attr:`has_open_movements
<lino_xl.lib.contacts.PartnerEvents.has_open_movements>`  choice to the
:attr:`observed_events <lino_xl.lib.contacts.Partners.observed_events>`
parameter field of the :class:`lino_xl.lib.contacts.Partners` table didn't work
and was not tested. Fixed it and added test coverage in :ref:`xl.specs.ledger`.

2020-03-07
==========

New method :meth:`lino.core.tablerequest.TableRequest.gen_insert_button` is a
generalized and no longer hackerish implementation of the hackerish solution
used in the calview monthly view until now.

When the label of a table is None, the ExtJS front-end now
suppresses the header of the grid panel (including the "open in own window"
button).  This is used by the slave tables in the detail layouts of the
calendar views. But note that you cannot simply set ``label = None`` on the
actor because that default value is overridden by the model's
:attr:`verbose_name_plural`. So to get an actor without label you be more
explicit and say::

    @classmethod
    def get_actor_label(cls):
        return None


2020-02-04
==========

Released to PyPI : react

2020-01-28
==========

New feature: every voucher model can now define its own workflow rules. This
change required the `state` field of vouchers to move from the Voucher model to
the implementing MTI child models. This requires manual changes in the
:xfile:`restore.py` file when migrating existing data. One possibility is to
simply remove the state from `create_ledger_voucher` and set all vouchers to
"registered" by patching the :manage:`reregister` command::

   # qs = cl.objects.filter(journal=jnl, state=VoucherStates.registered)
   qs = cl.objects.filter(journal=jnl)


2020-01-27
==========

Released to PyPI : lino 20.1.1 and xl 20.1.4 (because amici, presto etc are
failing on travis).

2020-01-24
==========

:func:`show_complexity_factors` no longer counts actions with
:attr:`no_params_window`.


2020-01-22
==========

Fixed a bug that caused :attr:`lino.core.choicelists.ChoiceList.preferred_width`
to be 4 for all choicelists. Wrote a new doctest utility
:func:`lino.api.doctest.show_choicelists` so that application maintainers can
easily cover these in their specs.  Usage example is :ref:`specs.cosi.apc`.

2020-01-18
==========

Released to PyPI : lino 20.1.0 and xl 20.1.3

Don't use get_head_lines for notify (Lino 26c8a9c11)

Fixed :ticket:`3470` (Lino sets wrong booking direction in suggested bank
statement item) and  :ticket:`3471` (Deleting a voucher item does not refresh
the grid).

ItemsByVoucher now uses default display_mode for financial vouchers.

Fixed :ticket:`3473` (eevat declaration doesn't generate movements).
Added an exception "SumDeclarationField may not be payable" to avoid the pitfall.

2020-01-17
==========

Released lino-book 20.1.1 to make it installable via pip.

Changed the designation "Uploads" to "Upload files".

2020-01-15
==========

New plugin :mod:`lino.modlib.publisher`.

Changes in :mod:`lino.modlib.notify`.

2020-01-10
==========

Changes in :mod:`lino_xl.lib.ledger` and :mod:`lino_xl.lib.vat`. Fix booking
direction of returnable VAT.

Done :ticket:`3459` (Move calendar view from "cal" to a separate plugin
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.calview`). One consequence for data migration: DailyPlannerRow
has moved from cal to calview


2020-01-09
==========

The ShowInsert action now has a more specific help text.

:class:`lino_xl.lib.ledger.JournalsOverview` has now display_mode "summary".

Released :ref:`xl` 20.1.2.

More bugfixes in :mod:`lino_xl.lib.eevat` and :mod:`lino_xl.lib.vat`.


2020-01-03
==========

Released :ref:`care` 20.1.0 and :ref:`book` 20.1.0 just to get the :ref:`travis` builds green.
Released :ref:`xl` 20.1.1 for :ref:`cosi`.

More bugfixes in :mod:`lino_xl.lib.eevat` : Sales invoices to
:attr:`lino_xl.lib.eevat.VatRegimes.outside` weren't handled correctly.

2020-01-02
==========

New field :attr:`lino_xl.lib.ledger.Journal.preliminary`, and
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.vat` now ignores :term:`preliminary transactions`.

2020-01-01
==========

Released to PyPI : lino-react 20.1.0, lino-amici 20.1.0, XL 20.1.0
