.. doctest docs/dev/site.rst
.. _dev.site:

===================================
Introducing the :class:`Site` class
===================================

.. contents::
    :depth: 1
    :local:


.. currentmodule:: lino.core.site

As explained in :doc:`settings` and
:doc:`/dev/polls/index`, Lino expects a variable named
:setting:`SITE` in your :ref:`settings`, and this variable must
contain an instance of the :class:`Site` class .

The :class:`Site` is the base class for representing a :term:`Lino application`.
This concept brings an additional level of encapsulation to Django.

If you knew Django before Lino, you might imagine the :class:`Site` *class* as a
kind of a "project template". Read :doc:`application` if you wonder why we chose
that name. Django settings usually contain simple values (strings, integers, or
lists or dictionaries thereof).  But Lino's :setting:`SITE` setting holds a
*Python object*, which has methods that can be called by application code at
runtime.

A `Site` has attributes like :attr:`Site.verbose_name` (the "short"
user-visible name) and the :attr:`Site.version` which are used by the
method :meth:`Site.welcome_text`.  It also defines a
:meth:`Site.startup` method and signals which fire when the
application starts up.

The base :class:`Site` *class* is designed to be subclassed by the
:term:`application developer`, then imported into a local :xfile:`settings.py`,
where a local system administrator (:term:`site maintainer`) may subclass it
another time.

A Lino application starts to "live" when such a :class:`Site` class gets
**instantiated**.  The instance of your application is stored in the
:setting:`SITE` variable of a local :xfile:`settings.py`.



Instantiating a :class:`Site`
=============================

The first argument of the instantiator must be the global namespace of
your settings module (`globals()
<https://docs.python.org/2/library/functions.html#globals>`__).  Lino
uses this to fill "intelligent default values" to your settings
module's global namespace.

In other words, Lino is going to automatically set certain Django
settings.  Including for example :setting:`INSTALLED_APPS` and
:setting:`DATABASES`.  To be precise, here are these settings:

>>> from lino_book.projects.docs.settings import Site
>>> pseudoglobals = {}
>>> SITE = Site(pseudoglobals)
>>> sorted(pseudoglobals.keys())
... #doctest: +ELLIPSIS +REPORT_UDIFF +NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE
['AUTHENTICATION_BACKENDS', 'AUTH_USER_MODEL', 'DATABASES', 'FIXTURE_DIRS', 'INSTALLED_APPS', 'LANGUAGES', 'LANGUAGE_CODE', 'LOCALE_PATHS', 'LOGIN_REDIRECT_URL', 'LOGIN_URL', 'LOGOUT_REDIRECT_URL', 'MEDIA_ROOT', 'MEDIA_URL', 'MIDDLEWARE', 'ROOT_URLCONF', 'SERIALIZATION_MODULES', 'STATIC_ROOT', 'STATIC_URL', 'TEMPLATES', 'USE_L10N']

Note that Lino writes to your settings module's global namespace only
while the Site class gets *instantiated*.  So if for some reason you
want to modify one of the settings, do it *after* your
``SITE=Site(globals())`` line.


How Lino builds the :setting:`INSTALLED_APPS` setting
=====================================================

A :class:`Site` is usually meant to work for a given set of Django apps (i.e.
what's in the :setting:`INSTALLED_APPS` setting).  It is a collection of apps
which make up a whole.  To define this collection, the :term:`application
developer` usually overrides the :meth:`Site.get_installed_apps` method.

Lino calls the :meth:`get_installed_apps
<lino.core.site.Site.get_installed_apps>` method, which it expects to yield a
list of strings.  Lino then adds some more "system" apps and stores the
resulting list into your :setting:`INSTALLED_APPS` setting.


Other settings
==============

Other Django setting for which Lino sets default values are:

- :setting:`DATABASES` : a SQLite database in a file :file:`default.db`
  in your project directory. On a production server you are of course going
  to set your own :setting:`DATABASES`, but this default value is what we
  think the best choice for beginners.

- :setting:`USE_L10N` and :setting:`LANGUAGE_CODE` (see
  :attr:`Site.languages` for details on these)


- More documentation about the :setting:`LOGGING`
  setting in :func:`lino.utils.log.configure`

- The :setting:`ROOT_URL` setting and the files :file:`urls.py` and
  :file:`polls/views.py` generated by Django are not necessary.  With
  Lino you don't need to worry about URLs and views because Lino defines
  them for you.


Additional local apps
=====================

An optional second positional argument can be specified by local
system administrators in order to specify additional *local apps*
These will go into the :setting:`INSTALLED_APPS` setting, together
with any other plugins needed by them.

>>> from lino_book.projects.docs.settings import Site
>>> pseudoglobals = {}
>>> Site(pseudoglobals, "lino_xl.lib.events")  #doctest: +ELLIPSIS
<lino_book.projects.docs.settings.Site object at ...>
>>> print('\n'.join(pseudoglobals['INSTALLED_APPS']))
... #doctest: +REPORT_UDIFF +NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE
lino
django.contrib.staticfiles
lino.modlib.about
lino.modlib.jinja
lino.modlib.bootstrap3
lino.modlib.extjs
lino.modlib.printing
lino.modlib.system
lino.modlib.users
django.contrib.contenttypes
lino.modlib.gfks
lino.modlib.changes
lino.modlib.memo
lino.modlib.notify
lino.modlib.languages
lino.modlib.office
lino_xl.lib.xl
lino_xl.lib.countries
lino_xl.lib.contacts
lino.modlib.uploads
lino_xl.lib.polls
lino_xl.lib.concepts
lino.modlib.tinymce
lino.modlib.export_excel
lino_xl.lib.events
django.contrib.sessions


As an application developer you won't specifiy this argument,
then you should specify your installed apps by overriding
:meth:`get_installed_apps <lino.core.site.Site.get_installed_apps>`.

Besides this you can override any class argument using a keyword
argment of same name:

- :attr:`lino.core.site.Site.title`
- :attr:`lino.core.site.Site.verbose_name`

You've maybe heard that it is not allowed to modify Django's settings
once it has started.  But there's nothing illegal with this here
because this happens before Django has seen your :xfile:`settings.py`.

Lino does more than this. It will for example read the `__file__
<http://docs.python.org/2/reference/datamodel.html#index-49>`__
attribute of this, to know where your :file:`settings.py` is in the
file system.



Technical details
=================

Here are the Django settings that Lino will override:

>>> from lino.core.site import TestSite as Site
>>> SITE = Site()
>>> print([k for k in SITE.django_settings.keys() if k.isupper()])
... #doctest: +NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE
['SECRET_KEY', 'DATABASES', 'SERIALIZATION_MODULES', 'LANGUAGES',
'INSTALLED_APPS', 'MEDIA_ROOT', 'ROOT_URLCONF', 'MEDIA_URL', 'STATIC_ROOT',
'STATIC_URL', 'TEMPLATES', 'MIDDLEWARE', 'AUTHENTICATION_BACKENDS', 'LOGIN_URL',
'LOGIN_REDIRECT_URL', 'LOGOUT_REDIRECT_URL', 'FIXTURE_DIRS', 'LOCALE_PATHS']

>>> from pprint import pprint
>>> from atelier.utils import rmu
>>> pprint(rmu(SITE.django_settings))
... #doctest: +ELLIPSIS +REPORT_UDIFF +NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE
{'AUTHENTICATION_BACKENDS': ['lino.core.auth.backends.ModelBackend'],
 'DATABASES': {'default': {'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.sqlite3',
                           'NAME': Path('.../core/default.db')}},
 'FIXTURE_DIRS': (),
 'INSTALLED_APPS': ('lino',
                    'django.contrib.staticfiles',
                    'lino.modlib.about',
                    'lino.modlib.jinja',
                    'lino.modlib.bootstrap3',
                    'lino.modlib.extjs'),
 'LANGUAGES': [('en', 'English')],
 'LOCALE_PATHS': (),
 'LOGIN_REDIRECT_URL': '/',
 'LOGIN_URL': '/accounts/login/',
 'LOGOUT_REDIRECT_URL': None,
 'MEDIA_ROOT': Path('.../core/media'),
 'MEDIA_URL': '/media/',
 'MIDDLEWARE': ('django.middleware.common.CommonMiddleware',
                'lino.core.auth.middleware.NoUserMiddleware',
                'lino.utils.ajax.AjaxExceptionResponse'),
 'ROOT_URLCONF': 'lino.core.urls',
 'SECRET_KEY': '20227',
 'SERIALIZATION_MODULES': {'py': 'lino.utils.dpy'},
 'STATIC_ROOT': Path('...static_root'),
 'STATIC_URL': '/static/',
 'TEMPLATES': [{'APP_DIRS': True,
                'BACKEND': 'django.template.backends.django.DjangoTemplates',
                'DIRS': [],
                'OPTIONS': {'context_processors': ['django.template.context_processors.debug',
                                                   'django.template.context_processors.i18n',
                                                   'django.template.context_processors.media',
                                                   'django.template.context_processors.static',
                                                   'django.template.context_processors.tz',
                                                   'django.contrib.messages.context_processors.messages']}},
               {'BACKEND': 'django.template.backends.jinja2.Jinja2',
                'DIRS': [],
                'OPTIONS': {'environment': 'lino.modlib.jinja.get_environment'}}],
 '__file__': '.../lino/core/site.py...'}


Here are the Django settings which Lino does not modify:

>>> import lino_book.projects.lydia.settings.demo as settings
>>> print([s for s in dir(settings)
...     if not s in SITE.django_settings and s[0].isupper()])
... #doctest: +NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE
['ADMINS', 'ALLOWED_HOSTS', 'AUTH_USER_MODEL', 'DEBUG',
'DEBUG_PROPAGATE_EXCEPTIONS', 'EMAIL_HOST', 'LANGUAGE_CODE', 'MANAGERS',
'SETUP_INFO', 'SITE', 'Site', 'TEMPLATE_DEBUG', 'TEST_RUNNER', 'TIM2LINO_LOCAL',
'TIM2LINO_USERNAME', 'TIME_ZONE', 'USE_I18N', 'USE_L10N', 'USE_TZ']
