.. _noi.v18.10: 

==============
Lino Noi 18.10
==============

Overview
========

.. currentmodule:: lino_xl.lib.tickets

As a result of my meetings with customers in october 2018, I realized
that we can easily implement "milestones" on Jane using our "sites".
For bigger customers we will have one :class:`Site` per milestone.  A
milestone being a concrete project planned with the customer.  We want
to view and print a backlog per customer.

We had milestones and deployments before in :ref:`noi`
(:mod:`lino_xl.lib.deploy`), but that implementation had a fundamental
design flaw: it allowed one ticket to appear as a wish on several
milestones.  This was overkill.

The contact persons of our customers should be able to sign on Jane as
"End users" and manage their tickets and write comments.  This is
nothing new (Matieu and Aurélie have been doing this), but the
permissions for this user type needs some review.  For example they
want to see only the sites they are subscribed to.es

DONE
====

- Make Site inherit from :class:`lino.mixins.referrable.Referrable` to
  add a :attr:`ref` field.

- Sites must get a life cycle so that they can become inactive.  Add a
  field :attr:`Site.state` and a choicelist :class:`SiteStates`.
  Possible states: active, stable, sleeping, closed.  Note some recent
  new practices about :class:`lino.core.workflows.Workflow`
  choicelists.

- New filtering parameters for the :class:`Sites` views.

- :ticket:`2611` (Can not submit new Site due to bad layout) is
  because the insert_layout has only one field (:ticket:`2614`).  This
  will be fixed as we weil add at least the new ref field to the
  insert_layout. :ticket:`2614` can wait once more.

- The detail of a site needs some changes:
  - show the parsed description
  
- :class:`TicketsBySite` : add :attr:`ticket_type` to column_names.

- The insert_layout for submitting a new ticket no longer has the site
  field.  Because the site is potentially being filled automatically
  depending on whether the end_user or the user has a primary
  subscription to a site.  For simple end users this means that their
  site gets set automatically.  For me it means that when I record a
  customer ticket I just need to specify the end user, and Lino will
  assign the site automatically.
  
- Remove topics and projects
